Working with Guides guides (#2952)
dbt-labs/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/guides/working-with-guides/core/1-setting-up-examples-on-core-recommended.md

---
title: "Setting up example projects in GitHub Codespaces"
id: 1-setting-up-examples-on-core-recommended
slug: working-with-guides/core/1-setting-up-recommended
description: Learn how to set up Guides example projects on dbt Core in GitHub Codespaces.
displayText: dbt Core recommended setup
hoverSnippet: Learn how to set up Guides example projects on dbt Core in GitHub Codespaces.
---

> ## Getting started

Reviewer: similar comment to first file re: h2 headers following from the title

:::tip Checkout the README

> These instructions along with animated gifs are provided as a walkthrough directly on the repo you'll be using. Feel free to follow the instructions there!

Reviewer: should we link out to the readme in this callout?

```suggestion
These instructions, along with animated gifs, are provided as a walkthrough directly on the repo you'll be using. Feel free to follow the instructions there!
```

:::

> 1. 🔀 **Fork the repo**. Go to the repo specificed as the example project in the guide you're working through, or start from [the base template](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template). Click `Use this template` and `Create new repository`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. 🔀 **Fork the repo**: Go to the repo specified as the example project in the guide you're working through, or start from [the base template](https://github.com/dbt-labs/jaffle-shop-template).  Click **Use this template** and **Create new repository**.
```

> 2. 🚀 **Open the codespace**. Navigate to that new repository. Where you would normally clone it from the Code button, instead go to the Codespaces tab and click `Create codespace on main`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. 🚀 **Open the codespace**: To navigate to the new repository, go to the Codespaces tab and click **Create codespace on main** instead of cloning it from the Code button as usual.
```

>    1. ↔ Depending on your settings, this will **either spin up a browser tab running VSCode** or open the codespace in in a **new window of VSCode** if you have it installed and prefer this. Either option is perfectly fine for this tutorial.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   1. ↔ Depending on your settings, this will **either spin up a browser tab running VSCode** or open the codespace in a **new window of VSCode**, if you have it installed and prefer this. Either option is perfectly fine for this tutorial.
```

> 3. 🍵 **Let the codespace build itself out.** This will take several minutes, grab a cup of tea and come back when it’s setup. It’s building an entire functioning dbt environment and warehouse, stocked with data from a simulated [jaffle](https://craftytoasties.com/what-is-a-jaffle/) shop (a fictional cafe selling food and beverages in several US cities) business for you. You'll be dropped into a fresh terminal tab when the codespace is complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. 🍵 **Let the codespace build itself out**: This will take several minutes, grab a cup of tea and come back when it’s setup. It’s building an entire functioning dbt environment and warehouse, stocked with data from a simulated [jaffle](https://craftytoasties.com/what-is-a-jaffle/) shop (a fictional cafe selling food and beverages in several US cities) business for you. Once it's done, you'll be directed to a new terminal tab.
```

> 4. 💁‍♀️ **Ready to go**. That's it! All dbt commands should work and you can use [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build out reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project provided in the `reports` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. 💁‍♀️ **Ready to go**: That's it! All dbt commands should work and you can use [duckcli](https://github.com/dbcli/duckcli) to write SQL against the warehouse from the command line or build out reports in the [Evidence](https://evidence.dev/) project located in the `reports` directory.
```

> 5. [Optional] If you'd like to generate a larger selection of data, you can run `jagen --years n` to generate n number of years of synthetic data. It gets exponentially slower as time goes on and the stores grow in size and number, so we'd suggest aiming at around 6 for a good balance of data size and time to build. It will build into the `jaffle-data` folder and automatically be sourced based on the `sources.yml` and `dbt-duckdb` adapter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. **Optional**: If you'd like to generate more data, run `jagen --years n` where `n` is the number of years of synthetic data you want.  It gets exponentially slower as time goes on and the stores grow in size and number, so we'd suggest aiming at around 6 for a good balance of data size and build time. The data will be built into the `jaffle-data` folder and automatically sourced based on the `sources.yml` and `dbt-duckdb` adapter.
```
